Hey friends, I'm Scott Hanselman.
And I'm Maria Naggaga.
And this is Microsoft Virtual Academy.
We're gonna be talking about ASP.NET Core 2.
>> Yes, we are.
Right, we've got three days of great content for you
This is the beginner day, we're gonna have beginner
getting started, a little bit about .NET and C#, and
the resources that you'll need.
Maria and I will explore creating a web application.
And by the end of these three days, you should be ready to go
and make a web application for yourself.
Exactly, and a good place to get started here is for
people to figure out where to get the tools they need
to get started   Yeah, so if you go to
dot.net, we made a little fun domain for you here d-o-t.net.
Or if you go out there and
search with your favorite search engine for learn C# or
download .NET you will probably end up showing up here.
The page might look something like this,
might be a little different by the time time has passed.
But you'll click on Download and
you're gonna see three different .NETs to choose from.
There is the .NET Framework, that comes with Windows.
There is Xamarin, which let's you make IOS, and Android, and
Windows applications.
We're gonna be focusing on .NET Core, aren't we?
>> Yes, we are.
So if you click on that it should show you a couple
of options on how to get started.
And then a lot of things that come up, especially for
new people to our platform, is do they download the SDK or
the Runtime?
Right, so the SDK, that's the tools, the compiler, the stuff I
need as a developer because it's the software development kit
Yeah.
So you probably will never want the runtime unless you're
gonna put that into production.
And then if you really want more information, you can follow step
by step instructions down here at the bottom.
Yeah, and we should actually click on one of those.
Click on the Windows one and you should see not only a step
by step, but also a few videos in between.
Right, so we've got a little video, this is very very short
two or three minutes, not as fun as this video, but still.
By you download the .NET SDK,
it will pick the right version for you.
And then by the end of this little three or
four step process, you will have written your first .NET app,
which I think we will do in a little bit.
All right, so you can also of course,
get your different versions of Linux, you can do it on a Mac,
and you can also use Docker, so there's a lot of options.
.NET Core runs everywhere.
Everywhere, and you can get this to run in ten minutes.
Or less, really.
So the other thing that you might want to think about is our documentation.
If you go to docs.microsoft.com and your country of choice.
This docs right here is got all the different docs through all
the different Microsoft properties.
So Azure and Xamarian and bots and all kinds of fun stuff.
When you go to .NET, there's a ton of great things and
we're gonna go through this a little bit more and
show you some of the fun things inside.
But remember, we're focusing on .NET Core, C# and ASP.NET.
That's what we're doing.
All right, and
the last thing that you wanna think about is Visual Studio.
And there are Visual Studio options.
So you have Visual Studio IDE which is on Windows, right?
And if you scroll across just a little bit,
there's Visual Studio Code.
And if you scroll just a little bit down on to the next level,
you'll see the different options.
You have Visual Studio for Mac now as well, and
you can build your ASP.NET Core application there.
So anything that we're doing today,
people can do this on their Mac.
Good point, so even though I'm on a Surface book,
I'm running Windows, literally every single thing that we're
gonna show you today, you should be able to follow along on your Mac
on your Ubuntu machine, on your Windows machine.
I will be using Visual Studio code a little bit
I'll be using Visual Studio a little bit, but you should be
able to follow along in your favorite editor, all right?
Yeah.
Cool, we'll take a quick pause and we'll come back with the next module.
