So we looked at how to build our very first console application.
And one of the great things about the .NET community is
about the documentation that we have right now.
There's a lot of great docs and I know it's silly sometimes
to talk about how great the docs are.
But really the docs are very, very good.
If you go to docs.microsoft.com we can click on .NET, or
you can go /.NET, there's a ton of documentation here.
There's the .NET Core Guide, which will have tutorials, it'll
talk about ASP.NET Core that we're gonna talk about as well.
And it's worth pointing out the difference between the .NET
Core Guide and then the language guides.
Yep and then you'll see there are different language guides.
We have VB, we have C#, we have F#.
Right, so
these are the guides that will give you understanding of
the syntax of the language.
Yep
And how to call the methods, and
then the .NET core framework itself.
And all of those methods are available from C#,
F# and in Visual Basic
And it's really important for
people to actually learn the language a little bit more,
before they start looking at the platform itself.
Absolutely, absolutely
And we did a hello world, I installed the .NET core SDK.
And I ran it from the command line, and
then I opened it up in Visual Studio code.
Do I have to install that stuff to say hello world?
No you don't anymore
we actually have something right in the documentation.
If you go over to Quick Starts under C#.
So C#
Quick Starts, it will drop you right into the Quick Start page.
And this shows you from the hello world experience
how to get started with numbers in C#, declaring variables.
It shows you some really fun examples that you can start
playing around to it, so if you, I've got
a .NET editor here in my browser.
Yeah
I'll go and copy Console.WriteLine over here
Yep, or you can just click on the Copy as well.
Okay, click on Copy, hit Run.
And now it's running in the cloud, and
it brought the result over here.
So the .NET SDK is not installed on my machine.
No. It's happening right here.
Exactly and you can go in, and edit that and maybe.
Mm-hm so I can make changes to this kind of code.
I can do whatever I want and
then the output will appear down here.
Absolutely
And I can mess with,
look at this I can do all kinds of fancy stuffs.
So if I bring in really complicated code and
mess with strings
Yeah. And do that, and
follow through with some online challenges
So it's actually designed as a complete challenge,
that's supposed to take 20 minutes at the very most.
Step by steps,
gives you examples of what needs to be done.
The editor that's working in the browser right now is in preview.
So if people see any bugs, we're really excited for
you guys to give us any feedback then.
Sure and then you can report those on the GitHub repository.
Sure and then you can report those on the GitHub repository
Yeah. And speaking of GitHub
in fact all of .NET is open source so
it's important to remember that it is all on GitHub.
So if you go to github.com/dotnet
you'll come here to .NET foundation and
it is within there that all the source code is there.
Now as a beginner you might not necessarily care about that
source code, but it's just nice to now it's there.
Yeah, and they also do have samples within most of
the repos, so they can start playing around
Actually that is a good point
It's all there, you can go and look at the, coreclr and
the docs themselves are also open-source.
Yes they are, so if you see any typos, if you see any
options as you'd like to look at, you could do that
So if you click on the edit over there
So I'm here on, for example, getting started with .NET Core.
Yeah. And you said click on Edit
where do I end up at?
Well I end up at GitHub
Yep
So I can be a contributor to open source
by even fixing a spelling error
Or changing a bit of code that may be incorrect
Exactly. All right.
All of this is under the .NET Foundation GitHub.
And you can also check out the .NET Foundation at
www.dotnetfoundation.org.
There you are.
There I am. You just flew by there.
So the .NET Foundation is a non-profit, an independent
non-profit, that tries to support the .NET ecosystem.
All right?
There's lots of open source projects that are within it.
You can set up a local Meetup or find a local Meetup near you.
We've got Meetups all over the world.
Wow
Literally all over the world.
We really do, actually
And There's one on every continent and
you also have a show.
Yep Called code conversation.
Yeah, the weird thing about code conversations, is it's five
to ten minute videos, that we seat down with engineers or
people working in different open source projects.
And they tell us a little bit of how to get started on
that project
Mm-hm
So you can check that out, that's on YouTube and
also on Channel 9, which is our TV channel
And again I wanna encourage people to check
out the meet ups
There's about 1200 different meet ups locally
user groups they're not locally, rather world wide.
You can learn open source, you can sit and find friends to
code with, you can pair up, you can do all kinds of things
And if there is no one nearby you
you could even potentially Skype people.
That's actually a good idea
A Skype meet up
I do that all of the time.
I have lots of different opportunities where I sit with
people and learn code, and pair, but what we do remotely.
And you can do that with Skype interviews as well?
That's true, all right
So just a reminder, you can go to docs.microsoft.com, check out
the Quick Starts to run your C# programs in the browser.
Also a great way to maybe introduce your young people or
new programmers to coding in C#.
And then if you start at either GitHub or the .NET Foundation,
you can jump off to all of these different locations.
And then one other thing worth pointing out,
As I just saw it fly by, was a .NET Conf.
Yep
there is a lot of great content that came out of .NET Conf.
Mm-hm
This was a conference in 2017
And you can go and check out the sessions for
.NET Conf up here at dotnetconf.net
There were 45 different sessions
About 45 hours of content
that you can learn some of the more advanced techniques.
Yeah So
when you're done here at Microsoft Virtual Academy,
you can maybe dig into that more advanced stuff.
Exactly. All right
take a quick break, we'll come back and make a web application.
Yes we will.
